src/app/work/projects/presenting-dscc-club-work.mdx, before:

---
title: "Presenting DSCC Club's work using a fully responsive website"
publishedAt: "2025-07-16"
summary: "For every university club, it is importnat to represente the work, the ambition and the vision clearly through a fully clean website."
images:
  - "/images/projects/project-03/cover-03.png"
  - "/images/projects/project-03/img-01.png"
  - "/images/projects/project-03/img-02.png"
  - "/images/projects/project-03/img-03.png"
team:
  - name: "EL MOUSSAOUI Oussama"
    role: "web developer"
    avatar: "/images/photo_finale.jpg"
  - name: "EL KHARRATI Jawad"
    role: "engineer student"
    link: "https://github.com/jawad-elkharrati"
link: "https://clubdscc-sepia.vercel.app/"
---

## Overview

In this project, I focused on automating the often tedious design handover process. The goal was to create a pipeline that converts Figma designs directly into clean, production-ready code. By integrating design tokens, component libraries, and automated workflows, this solution significantly reduced the time spent on translating design assets into code, while maintaining design consistency across the product.

## Key Features

- **Figma Plugin Integration**: Developed a custom Figma plugin that extracts design tokens such as colors, typography, and spacing values, and exports them in a format compatible with our codebase.
- **Code Generation**: Integrated an automated process that translates Figma components into React code using a combination of design tokens and pre-built component templates. This allowed developers to focus more on logic and less on repetitive UI coding.
- **Continuous Sync**: Established a CI/CD pipeline that continuously synchronizes design changes from Figma to the codebase, ensuring design updates are reflected instantly without manual intervention.
- **Scalable Design System**: Leveraged a design system that remains the single source of truth for both designers and developers, making it easy to maintain consistency even as the product evolves.

## Technologies Used

- **Figma API**: For extracting design tokens and component data directly from the Figma designs.
- **React and Next.js**: For building the front-end codebase with clean, reusable components.
- **Styled-Components**: For managing styles dynamically using design tokens.
- **GitHub Actions**: For automating the pipeline and syncing design changes to the repository.

## Challenges and Learnings

One of the biggest challenges was ensuring that the generated code was clean and maintainable. This involved setting up intelligent mapping between Figma components and React code structures, as well as managing edge cases like responsive design and conditional rendering. Additionally, the continuous synchronization required a robust error-handling system to prevent conflicts during development.

## Outcome

The automated Figma to code pipeline has streamlined the handoff process, cutting down design-to-development time by 40%. Designers now have more confidence that their designs will be accurately translated into code, and developers can focus on more complex logic and feature development. This project has proven the value of automation in bridging the gap between design and development.

---

This project demonstrates your ability to leverage automation and streamline workflows, which is highly relevant for design engineering portfolios focused on efficiency and innovation.

Commit message:

Work and Blog pages updates

src/app/work/projects/presenting-dscc-club-work.mdx, after:

---
title: "Presenting DSCC Club's work using a fully responsive website"
publishedAt: "2025-07-16"
summary: "For every university club, it is importnat to represente the work, the ambition and the vision clearly through a fully clean website."
images:
  - "/images/projects/project-03/cover-03.png"
  - "/images/projects/project-03/img-01.png"
  - "/images/projects/project-03/img-02.png"
  - "/images/projects/project-03/img-03.png"
team:
  - name: "EL MOUSSAOUI Oussama"
    role: "web developer"
    avatar: "/images/photo_finale.jpg"
  - name: "EL KHARRATI Jawad"
    role: "engineer student"
    link: "https://github.com/jawad-elkharrati"
link: "https://clubdscc-sepia.vercel.app/"
---

## Overview
For any university club, clearly showcasing its work, vision, and ambitions is essential to build credibility and attract new members. This project aimed to accomplish exactly that for the **DSCC Club** through a fully responsive and modern website. Designed and built using **React.js** and deployed on **Vercel**, the website acts as a professional digital front for the club's initiatives and impact.

This project is one of the most meaningful I’ve worked on, combining design, development, deployment, and communication to represent an entire organization online.

## Key Features
- **Modern React Stack:** Built with React.js using functional components and hooks for scalable and clean architecture.
- **Responsive Design:** Fully mobile-first layout with fluid resizing for all screen sizes.
- **Sections for Mission, Projects, and Members:** Clearly defined pages to present the club's identity, showcase achievements, and list active members.
- **Dynamic Content:** Structured content that can be updated easily, reflecting new projects, blog posts, or team changes.
- **Deployment on Vercel:** Fast and reliable deployment using modern CI/CD pipelines.
- **Polished UI/UX:** Clean, elegant interface with emphasis on readability, visuals, and accessibility.

## Learnings & Challenges
This project challenged me to apply advanced **React.js** concepts in a real-world setting. I learned how to structure a codebase for maintainability, optimize user experience with conditional rendering, and manage layout challenges across devices.

One major challenge was ensuring the site looked and behaved consistently across different screen sizes and browsers. Designing a user-centric interface while keeping performance in check required thoughtful use of components, assets, and layout logic.

Additionally, deploying and managing the site on Vercel taught me how to handle real deployment workflows and maintain version control with GitHub integration.

## Outcome
The final website became the official face of the DSCC Club. It has played a major role in enhancing the club's digital identity, showcasing its vision, and attracting engagement from students and partners. On a personal level, this project significantly boosted my **React.js skills**, taught me how to handle live production apps, and gave me confidence in managing full web development cycles—from design to deployment.

It stands as a professional, polished piece in my portfolio and a strong demonstration of my capabilities in **frontend development and digital representation**.
